---
title: Conclusion
number: 9
---

Deep learning offers a way to harness large amount of computation and data with little engineering by hand ([LeCun et al., 2015](https://www.nature.com/articles/nature14539)). With distributed representation, various deep models have become the new state-of-the-art methods for NLP problems. Supervised learning is the most popular practice in recent deep learning research for NLP. In many real-world scenarios, however, we have unlabeled data which require advanced unsupervised or semi-supervised approaches. In cases where there is lack of labeled data for some particular classes or the appearance of a new class while testing the model, strategies like zero-shot learning should be employed. These learning schemes are still in their developing phase but we expect deep learning based NLP research to be driven in the direction of making better use of unlabeled data. We expect such trend to continue with more and better model designs. We expect to see more NLP applications that employ reinforcement learning methods, e.g., dialogue systems. We also expect to see more research on multimodal learning ([Baltrušaitis et al., 2017](https://arxiv.org/abs/1705.09406)) as, in the real world, language is often grounded on (or correlated with) other signals.

Finally, we expect to see more deep learning models whose internal memory (bottom-up knowledge learned from the data) is enriched with an external memory (top-down knowledge inherited from a KB). Coupling symbolic and sub-symbolic AI will be key for stepping forward in the path from NLP to natural language understanding. Relying on machine learning, in fact, is good to make a `good guess' based on past experience, because sub-symbolic methods encode correlation and their decision-making process is probabilistic. Natural language understanding, however, requires much more than that. To use Noam Chomsky's words, "you do not get discoveries in the sciences by taking huge amounts of data, throwing them into a computer and doing statistical analysis of them: that's not the way you understand things, you have to have theoretical insights".
